# Prosper_Loan_Data_Analysis 
Introduction<br>
  For this project, I systematically explored the Prosper loan data set. It has over 100,000 entries and 81 columns of variables. The first main feature that I chose to explore was the relationship between Prosper score and the variables I chose. The second feature I explored was the effect that income has on the selected variables. These variables are: CreditGrade, LoanStatus, BorrowerAPR, ProsperRating, ProsperScore, IsBorrowerHomeowner, RevolvingCreditBalance, DebtToIncomeRatio, StatedMonthlyIncome, ProsperPrincipalBorrowed, and MonthlyLoanPayment.<br> 
  Before beginning my exploration I loaded the CSV file into a dataframe and made a copy of it. I dropped the columns I did not plan on using so that the chart was more readable. I started with univariate analysis of each variable. Some notable findings are that there are almost the same amount of homeowners as non-homeowners. The majority of Prosper scores fall between 4 and 8, with 4 being the most common. APRs tend to stay in the .15-.25 range, but go close to 0 and up to .45. With loan status, users have 5 times more current ones than defaulted! An estimated 80-90% of monthly loan payments fall below $500 with most falling below the $300-350 range. 
  Next I moved on to bivariate exploration. This is where I  began to look at what relationship each variable has with Prosper score. One finding that surprised me was that a lower Prosper score does not mean a higher payment. In fact, the lower the score, the lower the payment. Next I looked at the mean income for each score. From the scatter plot I could not find a pattern, but I did when I created a bar graph with the same data. The mean income increased for each successive score. Next I calculated the range of mean incomes from a score of 1 to a score of 11. The mean yearly range was 37,140. Revolving credit balances tend to increase with score. This is likely due to the fact that those with higher scores also have higher credit lines. Prosper score does seem to affect APR, with a range of 20% between those with a low score and those with a high score. Next I compared the mean revolving credit balance for each credit grade. With the exception of the two highest teirs, balance decreases with each lower score. My hypothesis is that this could be due to a lower credit limit, which has been suggested by other data above. The next two things I studied were income and credit balance. In general, the lower the monthly income, the lower the revolving credit balance. The exception to this is those with zero income, who have the highest balances. Next I looked at the .describe() statistics for a subgroup I created with those of a monthly income above 4,666 (the mean). I then did the same thing for a subroup with those of a monthly income below 4,666. 
  Prosper principal borrowed and monthly loan payment are the two categories where we see a notable difference. The amount borrowed averages 6,500 in the lower income group and 9,000 in the upper income group. Monthly loan payment averages around 200 in the lower income group and 300 in the upper income group. This difference is explained in the prior observation where the amount borrowed changes by 2,500 from the high to low income group. Next I created a correlation matrix with four selected variables. The only significant correlation present is between the Prosper rating and the Prosper score(see full document for definitions). There is a slight correlation between monthly income and Prosper rating, and Prosper score. There is a slight negative correlation between debt to income ratio and all other variables explored here. There does not seem to be a correlation between income and APR. Those with high APRs tend to have a higher debt to income ratio. Those with a lower monthly income tend to have a higher debt to income ratio.  
  The main findings I will be explaining in my presentation follow: 
   1. Being a homeowner has no conclusive effect on a client’s Prosper score.
   2. Prosper scores  have some effect on the APR a client receives.
   3. Income can affect a client’s given score. 
   4. Monthly loan payment is calculated by the client’s earned income. 

   In my presentation I chose to include only a couple of definitions that readers may need to understand each variable. These definitions came along with the data set and were extremely helpful in deciding which columns to keep and which to delete. I changed the color of my histogram and added labels. I did the same for the first bar chart. Next I created a bar chart to contrast Prosper score and monthly income (I had looked at a chart and scatter plot). Finally, I changed the color of my scatter plot on Prosper score vs borrower APR.
